---
layout: post
title: Cursed CSS
date: 2017-11-28
categories: rant
---
It's interesting when we mingle with people that have <em>similar</em>
interests. In doing so, we can easily come across people that really <em>get up
our nose</em> when it comes to our personal taste, and their pet hates.

So I crossed someone talking about how terrible CSS is. Yes, this person had a
lot to say, and for the most part, a lot of what he presented did make sense.
Without going into particulars, he was right about most of what he presented.
So really, the only part which I disagreed with was where he concluded that it
was a terrible markup because of these quirks and inconsistencies.

(In his particular case, he didn't give me the impression that he was a CSS
'veteran'.)

So I'll give you my own personal take on not what I feel about "terrible"
languages (and in this case it's a 'markup' rather than a language).

It reminds me of all the imperfections I have both read and heard of languages
(and markups) such as PHP, Python, JavaScript, Java, C, HTML, BASH, Go, and even
BASIC. It seems odd, but whatever language/markup there is out there, it will be
a problem with it.

Why should we end at languages and markups? Let's talk about how Linux is
rubbish, and how systemd is an evil Windows cancer in Linux that is going to
take over everyone's computer. Or what about how the GNOME desktop does terrible
things to your computer and spies on you? It's too bad if you believe that I am
making these things up.

Yes, it doesn't matter what it is, someone has got to say something terrible
about it because of one small fact: <strong>haters are gonna hate</strong>.

I'm not writing these things to <em>take on the world of haters</em> or have a
rant, but just sharing with the interwebs how I deal with these things. After
all, if you spend (a lot of) time and money learning how to use, say CSS, and
someone walks up to you with the tee shirt that says "CSS; I hate it", you will
likely get offended. Such people insult our intelligence by belittling our
decision to take the pains to learn such things, and yes, that is upsetting.

Lately I have been finding that I haven't been getting (as) upset with people
that are <em>rather presumptuous</em> in thinking that it is not an insult to us
to say such a thing. In fact, if some of these people only knew that it would be
insulting, then they wouldn't have been so offensive in the first place. So it
happens that they insult us with a sarcastic indirect comment about a technology
that we have been working/struggling through, we react to that. Then they, who
now have been insulted, return fire, thinking that they have done nothing wrong
and that <strong>you</strong> outright attacked <em>them</em>. In a way, it's
true. What happens after that is they go on, not only to further dislike the
technology, but to insult all the users of it. Some already outright insult
users because they have been gullible enough previously and already been
attacked.

So I'm showing you the pattern of how these things blow up out of proportion.
With a few small changes, we can deal with these people a bit better, and not
counter-insult them. I have several suggestions:

First: Don't talk to them. You can walk away from high blood pressure and a sore
throat this way.

Second: If you do have to talk with them, kindly tell them that you work with
this technology so that they have a chance to understand that they are insulting
you.

Third: If you walk away, don't think about it; don't take it to heart, and
remember that there is always someone that will speak badly of something.

Fourth: Remember that there are MANY people that are like you, and will dislike
what that person is saying also. Forget about the one people that is annoying
you, and remember that there are many many people that will agree with you and
your feelings at the moment.

Fifth: Don't take things seriously that others say. We all have opinions, and we
tend to share them for free. Just because someone says that because of X Y Z ABC
is bad and terrible, it isn't necessarily true.

My take on things like CSS, PHP, etc. is this: We have these things that, IMO,
are free to use and experiment/expand with. We can learn and understand these
things for free. They are free to use, and if we are good at them, they will in
return provide us with work which gives (sometimes very good) pay. When you have
pay, you don't have to live in a car, and you can pay your bills and buy toys (
:D ). So in my mind's eye, if it's free to learn and use, it's already pretty
awesome.

Back 30+ years ago, things weren't so free and easy as they are today. In fact,
things were a bit rubbish with computers back then, but then... I could be
insulting my reader, so maybe it is time for you to talk away. ;)
