---
layout: post
title: Cursed CSS
date: 2017-11-28
categories: rant
---
It's interesting mingling with people that do <em>similar</em> things. In doing
so, you easily come across people that really <em>get up your nose</em> when it
comes to things that you like, but they <em>don't</em>.

So I had someone talking about how terrible CSS was. Yes, this guy had a lot to
say, and I am not entirely sure why he felt this way. Without going into
particulars, he was right about most of his argument, but only part where I
disagreed was where he thought because of all the quirks and inconsistencies it
was a terrible language.

So I'll give you my own personal take on not what I feel about "terrible"
languages.

Hey, who am I? I have only been doing computers for over 30 years. I would like
to point out that had I had a terrible attitude to what is not so great, and
decide to avoid it, I'm sure that I will be out of the computer business very
quickly.

It doesn't end with CSS either. I have had people complain about PHP, Python,
JavaScript, Java, C, HTML, BASH, Go, and the list goes on and on. It's my
opinion that whatever language/markup there is out there, it will be a problem
with it as far as some people are concerned.

Why should be end at languages and markups? Let's talk about how Linux is
rubbish, and how systemd is an evil Windows cancer in Linux that is going to
take over everyone's computer. Or what about how the GNOME desktop does terrible
things to your computer and spies on you? It's too bad if you believe that I am
making these things up.

Yes, it doesn't matter what it is, someone has got to say something terrible
about it because of one small fact: <strong>haters are gonna be haters</strong>.

I'm not writing these things to <em>take on the world of haters</em> or have a
rant, but just sharing with the interwebs how I deal with these things. After
all, if you spend (a lot of) time and money learning how to use, say CSS, and
someone walks up to you with the tee shirt that says "CSS; I hate it", you will
likely get offended. Such people insult our intelligence by belittling our
decision to take the pains to learn such things, and yes, that is upsetting.

Lately I have been finding that I haven't been getting (as) upset with people
that are <em>rather presumptuous</em> in thinking that it is not an insult to us
to say such a thing. In fact, if some of these people only knew that it would be
insulting, then they wouldn't have been so offensive in the first place. So it
happens that they insult us with a sarcastic indirect comment about a technology
that we have been working/struggling through, we react to that. Then they, who
now have been insulted, return fire, thinking that they have done nothing wrong
and that <strong>you</strong> outright attacked <em>them</em>. In a way, it's
true. What happens after that is they go on, not only to further dislike the
technology, but to insult all the users of it. Some already outright insult
users because they have been gullible enough previously and already been
attacked.

So I'm showing you the pattern of how these things blow up out of proportion.
With a few small changes, we can deal with these people a bit better, and not
counter-insult them. I have several suggestions:

First: Don't talk to them. You can walk away from high blood pressure and a sore
throat this way.

Second: If you do have to talk with them, kindly tell them that you work with
this technology so that they have a chance to understand that they are insulting
you.

Third: If you walk away, don't think about it; don't take it to heart, and
remember that there is always someone that will speak badly of something.

Fourth: Remember that there are MANY people that are like you, and will dislike
what that person is saying also. Forget about the one people that is annoying
you, and remember that there are many many people that will agree with you and
your feelings at the moment.

Fifth: Don't take things seriously that others say. We all have opinions, and we
tend to share them for free. Just because someone says that because of X Y Z ABC
is bad and terrible, it isn't necessarily true.

My take on things like CSS, PHP, etc. is this: We have these things that, IMO,
are free to use and experiment/expand with. We can learn and understand these
things for free. They are free to use, and if we are good at them, they will in
return provide us with work which gives (sometimes very good) pay. When you have
pay, you don't have to live in a car, and you can pay your bills and buy toys (
:D ). So in my mind's eye, if it's free to learn and use, it's already pretty
awesome.

Back 30+ years ago, things weren't so free and easy as they are today. In fact,
things were a bit rubbish with computers back then, but then... I could be
insulting my reader, so maybe it is time for you to talk away. ;)
